Now that we briefly walked through npm and what we use it for,
let's bring something back into our memory. Nodejs
in this course was primarily used to spin up a web server and write code that runs on the server
side and that is indeed the main thing you do with nodejs when you write your own nodejs apps.
But we have to remember that theoretically you can run any javascript code with nodejs and specifically
you can also interact with your local file system,
you can read and write files after all
and that opens us a new door, a new opportunity.
We could use nodejs to execute utility scripts that for example parse certain files, manipulate
the content and output the manipulated content back into the original file or into a new file
and that is the idea behind so-called build tools and that is something nodejs also is capable of
being used for.
And it's important pointing out here that when we talk about build tooling and build workflows, we mostly
talk about frontend web development, like for example with our react application here. This react application
is not a nodejs app but still we use a package.json file and we use npm to install packages.
These packages are all holding code that runs in the browser though and in the end, the code we write
here in the source folder will also end up in the browser
but let me point out that the way we write it here would not run in browsers, at least not in all browsers.
For example we are splitting our javascript code here across multiple files and we're using es module
import syntax for merging these files together.
Now this does not natively work in all browsers, only in very modern browsers and therefore this is
indeed not the code that will end up in the browser.
This is the code we work with
but we use a build tool, a build workflow which is started during development with npm start and for production
with npm run build, this build workflow will take our code and kind of merge it together and transform
it into code that runs in older browsers too
and that is also minified and optimized because that's also important. We use build tools to optimize
our code,
we might write code that looks like this and
that is indeed how our code looks like in the react
I just showed you.
But as I mentioned, this does not run in all browsers
and even if it would, it would be very large in the browser
since all the code has to be downloaded by your users before it runs
and that's different on the server, there the code sits on the server and that's it, in the browser
the code has to be downloaded and therefore you want to keep it as small as possible so that your app
and your javascript code in the browser starts as quickly as possible.
Therefore we want to end up with optimized code and the idea here is that we also have code that is
not only too big but that is using next gen features, like here the spread operator or arrow functions and
we want to convert this to code that runs an older browsers too
and that is like an example optimized code which is shorter, we use less characters and therefore the
code is shorter and it also does not use next generation javascript features.
And that is the idea and as I mentioned, it's primarily important for frontend development because there,
not all browsers support the next features
and we want to keep our code as small as possible,
that does not really matter that much on the server side.
So that is the idea and
that is what we can use node and npm for
because if we go back to our react project, we want to convert that code into optimized version
and if you run npm run build in your project here, you actually start such a production workflow which
means now it's creating an optimized production bundle
and this is all done by npm which started the script and by node.
And here it completed and now indeed if we look into this build folder, this now holds our app code,
so the code we wrote in source
but in an optimized way. There in the static folder, we have javascript code and if we look into that,
this in the end is our code,
just minified a lot and therefore it's pretty hard to read but it's our code and this code is not
just very condensed and only contains current gen javascript logic, so logic that runs in older browsers
too. This is of course not the code we would like to write,
it's very hard to dig through that but it is the code we want to output and we use npm and node to transform
our code.
That's the idea behind build tooling
and now let's have a closer look at how npm and node can help us with that.